

Desirable Properties of Distributed system with Replicated Data
C-Cosistency
A-Availability
P-Pertition Tolerance

Example of DIstributed System:

A is an application.

B is a DB node in India

C is a DB node in US

A can query from both B and C

Data in both A and B is replicated and both are in sync with each other.

We cant have all three Desirable properties in same system.

We can have only two at a time.

Why????

Consistent - After succesful write in any node, we should get same/updated data on reading from any other node.

Availability - All node ( B and C)  should at least respond, whether success or failure. Id all DB node are responding, They are available.

Partition Tolarance -

Suppose the connection between DB node B and Db node C has been broken, And application A is still able to query from DB, it does not know whether it is querying from B or C tho. A is still giving reqeuest and getting response. That means there is partition tolarnace. System is UP.

Never tradeoff on Partition Tolerance. Partition Tolerance is always required.


CA, CP, AP

Suppose we create a break between B and C, but we want them to be avalable and consistent both.. Then To make it consistent , we will have to down one of the DB node. Thus here to make it consistent, availablity of a ADB node is sacrificed. All the read/write will be internally handled by one DB node only. - CP


Suppose we want to keep our system available and consistent, we cannot make a partition between DB node, becuse it there is a break, System wont be consistent and We will have to stop write action to let Db remain conssistent. -CA

If we want it to be available and partition tolerance oth, then our DB may not be consistent. - AP



NOTE:
Never tradeoff on Partition Tolerance. Partition Tolerance is always required. Beuse we use distributed system now a days. If there is a communication breakage, we cannot let a system down. So we have to choose one of CP or AP.

Partition TOlerance.. Even after the partition., is your system up? Is Application A able to query ???







